# Ray Tracing 1 (Whitted-Style Ray Tracing)
Ray Tracing: accurate, offline, very slow. 

Light: reciprocity.

## Ray casting(1968)
* Generate an image by **casting one ray per pixel**
* Check for shadows by **sending a ray to the light**

## Recursive (Whitted-Style) Ray Tracing
Primary ray / secondary rays, shadow rays...

The eye ray reflects and refracts multi times.

### Ray-Surface Intersection
Ray is defined by its **origin** and a **direction vector**:
$$\bold{r}(t) = \bold{o}+t\bold{d} \space 0 \leq t<\inf$$
#### Intersection with Spehere
Sphere:
$$\bold{p}: (\bold{p-c})^2 - R^2 = 0$$
Solve for intersection:
$$(\bold{\bold{o}+t\bold{d}-c})^2 - R^2 = 0$$
which is a quadratic equation.

### Intersection with Implicit Surface
$$\bold{p}: f(\bold{p}) = 0$$
Subsstitue ray equation:
$$\bold{p}: f(\bold{\bold{o}+t\bold{d}}) = 0$$
Solve for **real, postive** roots.

### Intersection with Triangle Mesh
* Intersect ray with each triangle?
* Note: can have 0, 1 intersections.

Improved method:
* Ray-plane intersection
* Test if hit point is inside triangle.

Plane equation:
$$\bold{p}:(\bold{p-p'})\cdot\bold{N}=0\\
ax+by+cz+d=0$$

Solve for intersection:
$$t= \frac{\bold{(p'-o)\cdot N}}{\bold{d\cdot N}}$$
check $0\leq t$ 

**Möller Trumbore Algorithm**
$$\bold{O} + t\bold{D} = (1-b_1-b_2)\bold{P_9}+b_1\bold{P_1}+b+2\bold{P_2}$$

### Accelerating Ray-Tracing Intersection
#### Bounding Volumes
0. Bound complex objects by bounding volumes
1. Test if ray intersects bounding volume
2. Test if ray intersects object

Use **Axis-Aligned Bounding Box (AABB)**, any side of the BB is along either x, y, z axis.

#### Intersection with Axis-Aligned Box
Compute intersections with slabs and take intersection of $t_{min}/t_{max}$

Solution:
$$t = \frac{\bold{p}'_x-\bold{o}_x}{\bold{d}_x}$$

From $\max(t_{min})$ to $\min(t_{max})$ is the **intersection range**, if $t_{enter} < t_{exit}$, the ray stays inside the object (intersect).

* $t_{exit} < 0$ the box is behind the ray(no intersection).)
* $t_{exit} \geq 0$ and t_{exit} < 0$, the ray's origin is inside the box (intersect).
> **If $t_{enter} < t_{exit}$ and $t_{exit} \geq 0$ ray and AABB intersect.**
